The Skyscraper Technique is a popular method in Search Engine Optimization (SEO), invented by Brian Dean of Backlinko, designed to guarantee the success of your content. It works as follows:

1. Find relevant content in your niche that has proven to perform.

Finding popular content that's relevant is key, because it removes any risk of writing something there's no demand for. Often your view of the market based on your personal experience isn't correlated with how most people actually search or read content, and looking at data in tools like Ahrefs can align you closer to the reality of what really resonates.

2. Create something better than the original post, or at least using a different angle.

This part is why it's called the 'skyscraper' technique - you've got to build something bigger than what came before. Your article could be longer, better researched, or have a unique perspective on the topic, that makes it 10x better for some segment of the search traffic. The returns from SEO are exponential, so being the best is worth double the traffic of second best, and quadruple third best. If you can't be in the top 3 or 4 don't even try: move onto a topic where you can.

3. Reach out to anybody who had linked to or shared the original for promotion.

Now for the hard part that nobody likes: promotion. It stands to reason that anybody who linked to the original, or shared it on social media, is at least interested in the topic. If you have geniunely created something better, you're actually doing them a favor by letting them know via social media or cold email. If you're finding yourself procrastinating on this step, or not getting much response, it's likely you didn't do a good enough job at step 2: back to the drawing board.

The benefits of following this technique are:

1. Backlinks: you have a real reason to reach out to someone to promote the article.
2. Performance: this topic already has proven demand, you just have to best the supply.
3. Sharing: when you make something dramatically better than what's out there, it gets shared.

The problems you might run into are:

1. Resource: it takes a whole lot of effort to make something better than the original.
2. Outreach: nobody likes doing this part, and it feels kind of scummy sometimes.
3. Conversion: just because the post drives traffic, doesn't guarantee it converts to sales.

If you're looking for a sure thing in SEO, the Skyscraper Technique is the closest you'll get. It ain't easy to beat incumbents for popular keywords, but at least your work is cut out for you, and you know if you pull it off, it'll work.