The word "meme" doesn't just mean funny viral internet pictures: it actually predates the internet. It was coined in 1976 by evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, to describe how ideas spread through natural selection, just like our biological genes do.

Any idea, behavior, style, or cultural practice that spreads within a culture is a meme, and memetics is the discipline for studying how these memes spread and evolve.

It's a helpful analogy, but not quite a mainstream science, because it's hard to define a meme, and measure it. For example if I say the word "batman", it conjures up a different set of associations in your head versus mine, based on our own relative experiences with the franchise (i.e. if you've seen the comics, and if I'm a fan of the Christopher Nolan movies).

Memes spread through imitation: we are social creatures and we copy each other. The reason wny all hipster coffee shops look alike around the globe, is not some vast conpiracy: a set of shared associations have formed around that concept in enough minds to make it a profitable business decision to decorate your coffee shop in that style. If you deviate from the template you risk failure, or sometimes you can have runaway success only to be copied yourself!

Memes that get remembered and shared are the ones that survive: in this analogy being forgotten means information is 'dead'. Some memes are just more viral than others, but humans tend to try and remember important or useful information more. The invention of writing, drawing, the printing press, TV, and computers can all be seen as ways to accelerate the storage and transmission of memes. It's memes not genes that are responsible for all our wealth as a society: there's no biological difference between us and early humans, only the memes have evolved.

The context in which a meme is transmitted is important, because some memes are better accepted as a mutually beneficial bundle. For example religion, where many memes have stayed relevant (and remembered) for centuries as part of the overall religion's memeplex (a mutually beneficial complex of memes) when they otherwise wouldn't be that viral on their own. The image of the cross, the phrase "turn the other cheek", the design of a church, all of these things mutually reinforce each other in people's minds, propogating the whole memeplex over time.

If you understand how memes spread, you can not only predict what will happen next in popular culture (insanely valuable), but you can also do some engineering of your own memes to take advantage of opportunities. It's also possible to design counter memes to nullify certain ideas by diminishing their virality or memorability. There's evidence that terrorist groups, political parties, and even the military are studying memetics and deploying it to great effect. 

Memetics has its critics, I think largely because it can't provide testable hypotheses until we can all agree on a definition of a meme. With advancements in machine learning and AI, we might be closer to that than we think though, and it'll eventually be possible to use Large Language Models to categorize, monitor, and memetically engineer memes towards specific goals.